Ochoa 
Grace Ochoa 
Robert Ladd 
Tokyo in Film 
5/17/2025 
Geometry of a Scene: Tokyo Drift 
For the scene analysis I chose the moment DK storms Han’s garage which ensues a car chase, roughly 1:09:11 to 1:11:00. Within the span of two minutes we see a scene unfold quickly with the help of a few cinematic elements. The scene begins as DK invades Han’s garage not hesitating a single second before landing a punch on Han only to pull a gun on him immediately after. If we visualize an imaginary line splitting the screen we can see that DK is to the left of the screen and Han is on the right. Even as DK’s goons, Sean, and Neela approach, we can clearly see the division of both sides. Dk’s group is on the left and Han’s crew is on the right.  While it is already established that there is tension between the two groups, the geometric composition used furthers this sentiment as it creates a visual separation between the two. As the scene progresses we see Han push past DK rushing further into the garage to retrieve his car with two of DK’s men on his heels. Even then, as DK’s men case after Han, they still remain toward the left side of the screen and Han rushes to the right. 
        As Han rushes to his car we see him enter a hallway that is noticeably darker compared to the rest of the garage. The use of low key lighting makes the scene a little darker and grungier compared to what is generally much lighter and brightly colored. In almost every frame you can see at least one red object in the background. Most of us know the color red often signals a sign of danger. The use of red signals to us that the conflict between both groups is escalating to a dangerous, and fatal, point. 
Throughout the entire scene the camera moves between each frame and character swiftly. Almost mimicking the same way you might quickly turn your head at a basketball game or during a heated conversation when in a group. As stated earlier, a lot happens within this short two minute scene. The almost jerky (and slightly shaky) camera work sets the pacing for just how fast the situation is escalating. All while showing the urgency each character has. Han and Sean want to desperately get away from DK and his men. While DK wants to catch up to them both so he can settle his business.  
Overall, DK’s storm on Han’s garage is heated and threatening. The geometric composition establishes a clear division between both sides. Usage of lowkey lighting as Han rushes to his car, makes the mostly bright, lively movie seem a little darker. Pops of red in every frame ques us in on the danger at hand. And the swift camera movements between each frame and character, all come together to create the mise-en-scenè. Through these elements we are able to see the urgency both sides have despites their different motivations. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Works Cited 
The Fast and the Furious: Tokyo Drift. Directed by Justin Lin, Universal Pictures, 2006.