Wolf Dodson
Robert Ladd
Tokyo in Film
21 May 2025
        Journal One
        For this journal I picked the first official race between Takumi and Takeshi on Mount Akina. Three major aspects make up the Mise-en-scene for this race. The first major geometric aspect of this scene is lighting. The race takes place at night and creates an effect of low key lighting in order to provide a suspenseful contrast between the reflective surfaces of the cars and the shadows on the landscape (Ladd 2.3). To do so, the director utilizes several real world elements such as the headlights of the cars, street lights, and even natural moonlight. These light sources also heavily influence and accentuate the slow motion blurring effects used during the race. The blurring and distortion of the lights adds a feeling of speed as the cars go racing by the camera. These blurring effects also help to make the turns feel more dramatic and add to the suspense of the race. I personally also believe they tie into the critical part of the scene where Tofuman mentions that Takumi said “everything he looked at seemed to be getting slower and slower” (00:40:55:00). 
        The next major component is the mountain road setting. The road's various curves and twists offer various points of perspective. They allow for several drifting scenes that have tight arcs from cars cars going around the curves, and even parallel lines as they drift side by side. And racing down the mountain can be seen as a way of adding to Takeshi’s character and motivation, as he’s trying to overcome the “turns” and make his way down the mountain, as a means of getting to his goal at the bottom, winning the race, and getting to borrow the car to get the girl (00:35:00). 
        The third major component is the composition of the scene. As Takumi and Takeshi are racing down the mountain, the camera is in a constant dynamic state, tilting, panning, and hovering along with the racers. The shots consisted of a mix of high, low, and prospective level angles seemingly changing according to tension. Higher shots for close call moments, lower shots for adrenaline and speed, and pov for the reactions of the racers, as well as critical changes in their positioning. The camera would also gently tilt and pan in the direction of each drift in a method of mimicking the movements of the cars from a distant outside perspective. These techniques add almost an element of being there into the scene, as though the viewer is also drifting alongside the car themselves. Other interesting shots include the cars switching sides on the road as they race along the straightaways. Another is a shot into the mirror of the GTR driven by Takeshi from the driver's perspective, the camera then zooms into the mirror and appears on the road, for a smooth transition between the driver perspective and a shot of the AE86 from the front. This creates a sense of distortion by changing the axis of view (Ladd 2.3). Finally, the scene ends with a wide shot of Takumi driving off into the distance as the camera zooms out and pans up, generating a sense of victory after having won the race, and moving on to the “bigger picture”. For now at least.
        My only thoughts on updates to the Mise-en-scene portion of the textbook would be a brief explanation of the topics covered within the linked videos, so as to briefly remind students of the content talked about and provide brief definitions. Mostly as a way to solidify the vocabulary covered on things like composition, lighting styles, and things such as shots and camera movements.
Works Cited
Initial D. Directed by Andrew Lau, Alan Mak, Media Asia Films, 2005.
Ladd, Robert. Tokyo in Film. LibreText Humanities, 2025. 
        https://human.libretexts.org/@go/page/283722.