Ruffner 
Jacob Ruffner 
Robert Ladd
Tokyo in Film
21 May 2025
Journal 1: Prompt 3
There are many exciting car movies out there, but one that stands out the most is  Fast and Furious: Tokyo Drift. This exciting movie centers around Sean Boswell, a young man sent to live with his father in Tokyo after his racing shenanigans back in the States get him in trouble with law enforcement. However, this does not deter Sean at all, and he continues driving and racing but steps into a new world: drifting. This exciting form of racing is foreign, but as the movie progresses, Sean gets progressively better at it until he is crowned the new drift king. One of the things that makes this movie so exciting is the driving scenes. One that stands out is the chase scene that ultimately leads to the character Han’s death. This great scene was made possible by using geometry to achieve visual pleasure, lighting to enhance shots and add tone, and finally, CGI to overall just enhance the scenes. 
        To begin, one should look at the geometry of the scene in question. The scene begins with the character, Han, jumping in his car to escape a dangerous man with yakuza ties, Takashi. The ensuing chase uses a variety of different shapes, such as straight lines and circles with the camera, but one of the most visually appealing is the arcs and the different variety of them, with the cars. For a couple of scenes, the cars swing from side to side very quickly, making the chase seem more intense and high-speed. The apex of this geometry is when Sean’s car is hit and has to do a massive drift through Shibuya Crossing. This scene is zoomed out initially and shows the car doing a massive arc through the crossing, and then zooms in the show how the car is arcing in slow motion. This geometry truly enhances the scene. 
        The geometry is not the only thing that enhances the scene, the lightning also plays a massive role. The Scene takes place at night, and the use of artificial lighting throughout the scene plays a massive role. Since the scene is at night and in the large city of Tokyo, it is full of artificial lights from light poles, other car headlights, and, at the end, the massive billboards in Shibuya Crossing.  These artificial lights, first of all, help the viewer see, but also help the vibrant colors of the car stand out more in the scene when these lights hit them. 
        Finally, one of the most important elements of this scene, and most prominent, is the CGI. For this, one can imagine that CGI was used in a few little places to help enhance the scene, but where it is most noticeable and notable is the backgrounds. The majority of the racing scenes were shot in Los Angeles, and the background was created using CGI to make the large buildings appear as if they were in Tokyo.
        Overall, the movie uses many different techniques to enhance itself and its scenes. From the geometry, to the light, and finally the CGI, these elements all come together to form some of the best racing scenes in the Cinema world. 














Works Cited 
Ladd, Robert. Tokyo in Film. 15 Jan. 2025, https://human.libretexts.org/@go/page/283706.
Lin, Justin, director. The Fast and the Furious: Tokyo Drift. Universal Studios, 2006.