Wolf Dodson
Tokyo in Film
Robert Ladd
31 May 2025
Journal 3
        For the final journal I chose to do the sound design in animation for Jujutsu Kaisen, specifically the final fight between Itadori and Mahito in episode 45 called Metamorphosis. After a clash with a fully realised Mahito, Itadori breaks through all his defenses and Mahito is left fiending for his life. The entirety of the scene consists of three sounds, the gentle ambience of the nightime air, the strong winds in Mahitos hallucination, and the noises and dialogue produced by the characters. The scene has no accompanying soundtrack and is mostly silent, aside from one brief non-diegetic ringing sound when Itadori is giving his speech (00:18:50). Which adds to the tense feeling created by Mahito’s struggle to make it out alive, while also generating a heavy sense of strength and dominance from Itadori as he overcomes the mental tolls that have been holding him back. Two meanings are generated from one lack of sound. The ambient noise is mostly all diegetic as it is the noise of the environment around the characters, however, one scene in particular breaks this; as it is technically both diegetic and nondiegetic. In this scene Mahito begins to hallucinate being in a snowy forest as Itadori is chasing him down, and the noises from the animals and the strong winds can be heard by Mahito, but not by Itadori (00:19:26). This creates an interesting effect as it can both be heard by the characters and not heard by them. The dialogue in this scene, aside from Itadori’s speech about continuing his role, consists mostly of Mahito’s crying and struggled breathing as he attempts to get away. This adds to the scene’s mood by giving an almost negative sense of victory, as if there is no more reason to even struggle anymore because the battle is already over. The foley consists of Mahito scrambling and struggling to get away, as well as the sounds made by the stuff he throws at Itadori in his futile attempt at escape. Then there is the sound of the animals running and snow crunching during Mahito’s hallucination that adds more environmental storytelling, and is also both diegetic and non-diegetic as mentioned previously. Gotta say I'm not really sure how specifically this adds to the mood, but it definitely enhances the previously mentioned feeling of negative victory and struggle. Overall the sound design of this scene creates a cold and uneasy feeling, but it does so in a way that makes the feeling seem good or correct even, like a dark sense of accomplishment. 
________________
Works Cited
Jujutsu Kaisen, Shibuya Incident. Directed by Shota Goshozono, Mappa Co., 2023.
Ladd, Robert. Tokyo in Film. LibreText Humanities, 2025. 
        https://human.libretexts.org/@go/page/283722.