Wolf Dodson
Tokyo in Film
Robert Ladd
26 May 2025
Journal 2
        The film I chose for this journal was Beyond the Infinite Two Minutes. As stated in the prompt a good example of Ma is how the camera lingers on the empty monitor after someone leaves (Ladd 3.5). This becomes even more noticeable as well as disorienting when a second monitor is introduced, thereafter continuing the long loop of more and more empty monitors each time they bring a new monitor in from the past or change places, adding even more time loops (00:25:46). Another good example of how the camera movement shows storytelling is the way it slowly and gently follows Kato, and eventually the whole group, as if the viewer is there themselves as a part of the journey. Likely the entire movie was filmed with a steadicam, allowing for the camera movements to feel more like blocking than standard shots (Ladd 3.3.2). This gives the camera's perspective a character trait, allowing the continuity of the shot not to be broken despite the constant changing of the point of axis (Ladd 2.3.4). This does give a sense of disorientation to the viewer while keeping the story from becoming too confusing to follow. The entire film is also an example of a long take, as there are seemingly no cuts in action and the camera follows the characters for the entirety of the film (Ladd 3.3.3). This relates back to my earlier comment about how the subtle movements of the camera make it feel as if the viewer is a character following them around, as well as the long take which enhances this feeling by making it seem as though the viewer is constantly moving, such as the characters in the film are.
 As the film goes on we begin to see the main character becoming distant and falling into the background of each scene, slowly getting closer and closer to being out of frame. Kato sitting still in the background and moving slower and slower each scene until he eventually parts from the group produces a sense of distance before leading to the start of trouble. While this is a character choice it affects the sense of composition within Ma by slowing down the camera's movements, as if the viewer's “character” is also falling behind, slowing down the loop (Ladd 3.2.1). The gentle zoom out near the end of the film when the “time wardens” vanish, could symbolize a stillness and a slow retreat from the paradoxical problems, creating and enhancing the feeling of resolution of the story (01:00:45). At which point the camera begins to behave like a camera once more, and no longer like another character standing alongside the story. This feeling of resolution is even further enhanced as the camera pulls away at the “end” of the story.
________________


Works Cited
Beyond the Infinite Two Minutes. Directed by Junta Yamaguchi, Europe Kakaku, 2021.
Ladd, Robert. Tokyo in Film. LibreText Humanities, 2025. 
        https://human.libretexts.org/@go/page/283722.