Asher Bowman
Ladd
ENGL-2140-800
29 May 2025
Suzume and Editing Chaos
   Suzume, (2022) written and directed by Makoto Shinkai follows the titular Suzume Iwato and Souta Munakata as they try to prevent disasters by closing and sealing gateways to another plane called “gates”. The scenes that I will be examining and comparing today will be from (00:10:11-00:12:48) and (00:28:38-00:30:32), both of these scenes show Suzume and Souta sealing gates, however, the way that each of these edited vary to reflect the audience’s and Suzume’s perspective, specifically it is communicated through the average shot length (ASL) and the use of cutting on action. 
   The scene from (00:10:11-00:12:48) is the first time both Suzume and we as the audience see a gate attempting to be sealed by Souta in the ruins of a town, and a worm attempting to break out, which leaves both the audience and Suzume confused and nervous. This feeling of confusion is communicated by the editing through the average shot length (ASL).
   Starting with the ASL for the scene within the timecode (00:10:11-00:12:48) is 157 seconds long with 64 different shots giving a ASL of around 2.45 seconds, meaning that the average shot lasts around two and a half seconds before cutting to the next shot. The low ASL communicates the chaos of the ordeal and its frantic nature, but more importantly it communicates Suzume’s current feelings of anxiety and confusion and having the audience feel the same. 
   Cutting on action means that when the camera cuts, it is during movement and that it follows that movement to create a sense of flow and smoothness for each cut. Suzume, (in my opinion) has some of the best uses of cutting on action such that almost every cut feels natural and, in some cases, nearly invisible because of how well cinematographer Ryosuke Tsuda use the technique. This leads to this scene showing the fight in very smooth transitions leading the audience to be fully immersed within the scene, which helps the audience relate to Suzume more because the cuts are mostly following her movements, or Souta’s movements, who is always in Suzume’s eyeline.
   The second scene from (00:28:38-00:30:32) follows Souta, who is now a three-legged chair, (trust me it makes sense in the film), and Suzume trying to seal another gate, this time at an abandoned school. The ASL for this scene is 2.8 seconds, which is longer than the previous but not by much and the cutting on action is just as phenomenal. This scene is like the last through the goal being the same for both scenes, but they are different in one distinct way, and that is how the scene uses each shots length to communicate the experience that Souta has with being a Closer, but also how quickly things can change. 
   First let’s begin with the beginning of the scene where Souta attempts to seal the gate but to no avail as he cannot hold the key necessary to completely seal it with his new bodies’ hands (or lack thereof), and this is shown through how shots last a bit longer to emphasize how slowly he’s able to make progress sealing the gate but also to show his experience with closing gates. This changes however when Suzume enters the fray, immediately the cuts become more frequent to show how frantic things have become, and this is shown in how when she trips there are a few quick cuts to show her getting a hand onto the door and adjusting herself. Once Suzume begins to attune herself to the past, the shot length get way longer as the chaos of the situation is no longer apparent, but once again that changes as the shot length shortens because it's time for Suzume to plunge the key into the lock and seal it for good, and once the worm is sealed again the shot length rises again to show how the chaos has ended and crisis has been averted, for now.


Works Cited
Shinkai, Makoto, director. Suzume. Toho, 2022. 
   



2
Bowman

